Hello there.
This is Lou.
And welcome back.
Let's now go ahead and look at the information hiding design principle in action.
So you're going to enhance our student class by incorporating the information hiding design principle,
which tells that in public classes we should not be having public fields, but instead we need to have
private fields with access or methods.
So we are going to walk through the entire scenario, which we discussed in the previous example.
So you start off with a tightly coupled system, and then we will adopt the information hiring design
principle, which will help us in having a loosely coupled system.
Now here in this student example, I just made one change.
I added this public modifier in the class declaration as well as for all of the fields here and also
for the different constructors and the update profile method.
But the key is, I did add it here, so we made these fields public and the class itself is a public
class, which means that it is part of the API and so the users of this particular API will be able
to access these fields directly because these are public and that's it by design.
Now let's assume that this particular class is part of a larger library, which is developed by my company,
Semantic Square.
And let's say we have partnerships with many universities, and those universities use this library,
which has this class.
Let's say there is one university and it is using this library.
So the class is student test, which we already have, and it could have been named in a more appropriate
way, like a university admission or something like that.
But that's fine.
Now let's assume that this particular university has a website where students can register, and once
they submit their information, they will be sent to the web server where such student records will
be created, and then subsequently this data will be added to the database.
Now, let's say Anita is one such student and by mistake she has selected male for gender.
So that information got passed to the web server and the record got created, a student object got created,
and the information is written to the database.
Now later, she realizes that she has selected a wrong gender.
So she goes back to the website and she goes into the update profile web page, and then she selects
the right gender this time.
But somehow, let's say there is a there is a bug and the female over there has a typo.
So that information gets passed to the web server and that will be stored in the system, which is wrong.
So let's assume that she has selected female and she has submitted her information and that data is
sent to the web server where a student object is created.
So let's just say that that student object is student three.
Maybe let's just assume that here it has all of this state, but let's assume that this no constructor
was invoked here at the end and we are invoking the public field here.
So this is how it has been coded by the developer.
So the developer has selected the gender field and is going to update the value which has been selected
in the update profile page.
In this case we are saying there is a typo.
So let's say the character A is missing.
So it is something like this.
So now there is an issue because we are setting gender with this wrong value.
So gender should be only male, female and transgender.
But since we are able to access this gender field directly, any value can be set right.
So we are unable to restrict to those three values.
And so we can set any value.
So that's the problem with having public fields.
So that's the problem.
So this is because there is a tight coupling here because of having the fields as public.
The client, which is this particular university, they are the client is able to access those fields
directly and is able to set any value.
In this case, it is a typo.
In some other case it could be any value too, which is not good and which will because of which we
will be having inconsistent state in the system.
So to avoid this, we are going to adopt the information hiding design principle, which says that for
public fields in public classes, for fields in public classes, we need to have private fields.
We need to have the private modifier.
And we need to allow access to them using getters and setters.
So we have already seen this in the previous lecture.
So let's go here.
Source Generate getters and setters.
For now, let's just select only two fields, gender and name because name is being used in the student
test class.
Let's just hit, generate and then we will see the getter here for name, setter for name and get run
setter for gender here.
So now this is giving a compilation error because we cannot access gender as it is private.
So this is how it needs to be, and let's assume that this is how it has been designed.
So now the developer here has to say set gender and let's assume that still this typo is there and there
is no change with that.
So this is how it is being passed.
And there are also this name here.
So let's just say dot get name.
So we are just printing the values here.
And there is one here to.
Okay.
So that's the thing.
And here.
Now let's.
Put some validation logic here.
Because of this design, we can ensure that the gender that is passed is the right gender.
So here we will say if.
Gender does not equal or equals.
Male or.
Let's just copy this.
So if it is one of these values, then the gender the gender field will be set with the gender here,
whatever has been passed.
Else if an incorrect value has been passed.
Then we are going to report it.
So we are going to throw an error.
So let's not worry about exceptions because exceptions has not been discussed yet.
But later we have a wonderful chapter which explains this in a very detailed way.
So this illegal argument exception because the argument is illegal here.
And let's also put a message here that it is an invalid gender.
All right.
So there needs to be a new keyword here.
So that's it.
Now going back here, we have this agenda.
Let's now just run this and we can see that.
Here when the gender is accessed, this value, incorrect value is being passed.
And so it is not going to match.
All of these conditions will fail.
And because of that, this exception is thrown and the program execution stops right away.
And with that, the developer can see what the issue is, and perhaps they can go into the user interface
and fix the typo that they have.
So that's the advantage that we have.
So now that the system is clean because it will accept only the correct values for the gender.
So that's the benefit, one benefit that we have that following the information hiding design principle.
Okay.
So we can ensure that the values of a particular field has that is within a certain range like in this
case.
Now another benefit we discussed is that we can also change the implementation.
So let us let us say after six months, the developers in the company, they feel that the string having
gender string is affecting the performance.
So they want to use they want to introduce a new field.
So this is after six months.
So they will define a new variable ie gender and the default value is zero.
So we have seen this in the previous lecture, so we need to change the implementation here.
So let's do that.
So for the first condition as this one.
Okay.
In this case, I gender will be one.
As.
Then I.
Gender will be to.
Finally, if it is the third condition I gender will be three.
So here if I gender.
Is equal to, let's say, zero.
In that case, we need to throw this.
So let me just put this here.
Through this error.
Otherwise, we will set this gender field here so that.
If the client accesses get gender, the right gender will be passed.
So here, if the gender is one of these, then the gender value will be one of these three values.
But if I gender is still zero, it means that the user has passed an incorrect value.
So the value passed for gender is not right.
So we throw this error.
But if that's not the case, then the gender value will be set to the correct gender which has been
passed.
So let's say this modification has been done after six months.
So this new class and the new library will be given to the student test class and they will start using
that.
But on their end, nothing is changing.
They are still passing this female because they are just unaware of this implementation.
This implementation change has happened internally, but they are completely oblivious to that.
So they are just invoking the same method and that's it.
So there is no change on their end.
So if we run it again, we will see that.
You know, we will have the same error.
So they are going to fix this issue that they have this type of issue and that's it.
But on their end, nothing has changed.
So this information hiding design principle has allowed us to make this implementation change.
So we call such changes as an implementation change.
And now we are assuming that this change will give us better performance.
It's just an assumption.
But the thing is, such having such a good design principle is allowing us to optimise this particular
class.
So we were able to optimise this class by changing from string to end without affecting the client.
So that is the benefit of having information design.
So going forward, you should be using only private fields and you would allow access to them via getters
and setters.
So that's one of the important design principles.
So that's the information hiding design principle.
So that's what you should be using going forward.
Even in your professional life, you should always use private fields and public getters and setters.
Thank you, and I will see you in the next lecture.